Eh…. I would go a little further south to neighborhoods off Cascade. Westview, Cascade Ave, cascade heights, parts of West End, etc. Still in the general area, but nicer imo. Less abandoned homes and blight, especially in westview. Personally, I’d rather not live right of Joseph e Lowry or Donald Lee Hollowell. Source: I live in SW Atlanta, used to work in Bankhead & English ave from 2016-2019
Exactly what I was going to say. Oakland City is still rough but Westview West End Mozley Adams Washington Park or even Sylvan Hills and Capitol view are better bets
It’s the heroin capital of GA, has a lot of people on the street, a bunch of abandoned flop houses sitting around, houses and businesses with bars on their windows, and sometimes dodgy neighbors; you gotta think about stuff like car break ins and package theft too. Had a dog sitter who lived in the neighborhood and I had to drop her bc I didn’t feel safe when I’d go over there with her walking my dog outside, her neighbors were always a little rough too with aggressive dogs left on leashes outside and broken down cars and junk left on lawns. Have you actually gone over and driven over there during the day and night? Thats kinda step #1… also I wouldn’t really walk the beltline over there, it’s not really a walkable area with the gangs, prostitution, and drugs imo. I lived on the Westside for awhile but further away and gps took me through the area a lot.
Look at Pittsburgh, Adair Park, Venetian Hills.
You can plug some addresses into crime mapping sites also.
It’s not safe and would not be financially ‘worth it’ to buy a house in English Ave for $300k. The decision would be even worse as a newcomer to atlanta and a 1st time homeowner. Seriously, it would be a life changing decision for you, like making your life much harder. If you are dead set on that neighborhood and want to be an ‘urban pioneer’, go for it, but don’t spend more than $100k. You might even make a buck one day.
If you like the beltline there are tons of better options for you with a $300k budget! Hell, there’s even a 2/1 condo in Inman freaking Park @ 148 waverly for $285k that’s on the same block as $2 Million houses right now- right by the beltline , good area in all aspects and you may even make some money when you sell it in the future.
Best of luck, Atlanta’s great, but TBH anyone buying in the bluff at $300k is a patsy.
Safe is relative… person to person. If you are scared of homeless people it’s probably not for you. Used to live in Washington park. Didn’t have any issues, as a female. The area is a funny because you will see a 500k house next to trap house. 300k is a good deal. Just be careful with the inspection! Interview someone who knows what to look for. Some investors are shitty and will slap paint on anything. Also depending on the era the house was built it might need to be completely rewired or not have AC (gasp!). I looked in that area and got under contract for a house before my first choice accepted my offer. Good luck
Watch “Snow on the Bluff”. Most of the abandoned properties over there are owned by slum lord buddies of Kaseem Reed. It won’t flip until they’re ready
My landlords thought the same thing 10 years ago and they sold the house after I moved out. Even if you are in it for the long term we are coming up on a recession and cutting government assistance and that is going to make any marginal neighborhood a lot rougher. The only way I would do it is if you have a full perimeter fence and cameras, and can park your car off the street.
No, it’s not safe. Excessive drug addiction, poverty, and all the things that come along with that. Have you looked at West End or Adair Park? Easy choice over Bankhead IMO.

My home is on Chappell Rd and I feel safer here than I felt staying at an apartment in Alpharetta so I think everything is very subjective.
I like the community and I have a neighbor on my right who is an older lady- been in the neighborhood forever and a new renovation on my right, the latter of which waited about 2 years to renovate while mine was completed in less than 6 months, which motivated him to finally start on his.
I barely heard fireworks on the 4th and my packages have stayed on my front porch for days without being touched. There’s a sense of community, in my opinion, and my home feels like the old Atlanta while I’m still a mile away from “West Midtown.”
Don’t do it
Safe? Questionable. Worth it? Absolutely. It will only get better.
As someone who’s lived in Atlanta for 10 years we have an up and down pattern with some of the gentrification. We get REI developers betting on areas to get better but I’ve seen neighborhoods get slightly better and then regress (like over by Pine Street where they closed the old shelter down or by Edgewood where the city tried to remove the tent city there and someone was killed by a bulldozer). I noticed a bigger regression after the pandemic when a bunch of services got cut like another commenter mentioned. I’m not pro gentrification but, “this neighborhood is going to get better,” because a few people decide to build 300-500k houses and condos while the actual problems that face the original residents (pay and housing cost equality, job and education opportunities, jail and drug rehabilitation, etc.) don’t actually get solved, nothing really changes. If even the more inequitable things become bc services are getting cut and the cost of living is going up.
Gentrification happens when there’s nowhere else affordable to go. When I was in my 20’s we lived in Midtown and rent was so expensive, or so we thought, we moved south to O4W because it was more affordable. It was a bit scary at first but the truth is, no one wanted to bother us. They wanted to go on about their day, doing what they do without stirring up the scared new girl who might call the cops. It will get better. There’s too much growth that direction and the Gulch changes are pushing even more. It will change eventually. 

https://www.reddit.com/r/ATLHousing/comments/1d5t6tv/english_avenue/
English Avenue

Definitely look at safety maps. I personally would look in other areas.\It’s called “the bluff.” A lot of west side is being gentrified but English Ave is still littered with violent gun crime related to opioid epidemic. Would advise against unless you don’t care bout ya car being broken into

https://www.reddit.com/r/Atlanta/comments/3hn2vw/national_guard_to_be_deployed_to_english_ave_to/
 rode my bike through this neighborhood one night because I'm an idiot and the people were incredibly nice. Everyone smiled and waved as I passed by. It was pretty great.
I've lived in the neighborhood really isn't that bad. I've lived here for three years. The reputation is much worse than the reality. Also, it's one of the very few last enclaves in central Atlanta that is ridiculously affordable
Yeah I always had this perception of the neighborhood being a scary place and thought I'd get shot and robbed being there - but I'm more nervous riding through EAV than this neighborhood
Good. English Avenue is an absolute disaster. That whole part of town needs to be revitalized.
Demolish everything.
 wish they could stay, keep out gangs, and then the lots could be made into greenspace with bike and walking trails, a Reading Garden, a playground, and a community garden where old and young could work together and learn about nature and organic gardening using George Washington Carvers writings as a model, and provide healthy food for the neighborhoods. I know. I am crazy.
Outside influences? No, the bluffs were a shit hole for a long damn time, they needed zero help from anyone else.
So where is it going to go? Crime is already up all over the city, and people aren't going to stop buying/selling drugs.
My bet is that area south of Turner Field and east over to Moreland is about to get a little crazier. But as someone that lives on the westside I should get another security light and camera

