https://www.reddit.com/r/Marietta/comments/173q5sh/anyone_here_live_off_franklin_road_in_the_late/

Anyone here live off franklin road in the late 90s early 2000s?
Preston chase apartments specifically.
I lived in Franklin Park in ‘93, my first ever apartment. $420/mo for a 1-bedroom. Clean but somewhat sketchy. I had 5 pairs of jeans stolen from the laundry, which was devastating at 23 years old. The complex was leveled and it’s now the Atlanta United training complex.
Then I lived at St. Augustine Place for several years. I was living the dream.
Yeah all those apartments seemed to be built for life university . I could be wrong. When I lived there as a kid it was predominantly Mexicans.

The first apartment was a lot of Mexicans. St. Augustine Place is a condo complex with about half the residents Life students. I wish I never sold that place. Dirt cheap mortgage by today’s standards and a great rental property.
I miss Danny O’Shea’s. :)

My family stayed in that area for like 3 months in the very early 90s while our house up in East Cobb was getting ready. My old man worked off Windy Hill, so it was convenient for that.
Was it dangerous in that time?Not really dangerous back then. It's a shot hole now.


Not really. Got a little dangerous in the mid 90s but it was just kinda run down. Now the ATL United training center is over there.
Just came here after googling Franklin Rd in the 90s. Lived in Preston Chase from 94-99ish? I was a child so I remember bits and pieces but it definitely wasn’t safe toward the end.


Did I buy a house in a bad or less desirable area of Marietta?
Edit: THANK YOU ALL FOR THE RESPONSES! Y'all have definitely helped calm my nerves about this move and I can't wait to explore and get to know know area even more 🥰
My husband and I just bought a house in the Sprayberry school district, near the intersection of Canton Rd and Piedmont. Before this we lived in Atlanta, closer to downtown, so we got pretty used to noise, seeing homeless, crime, and all the negatives that usually come with inner-city living.
When scoping the area before buying this house it was quiet (still is) and offered walkability to restaurants, stores, coffee shops, and even bars on Canton Rd while also being a 10 min (or less) drive to Town Center, downtown Marietta, and Woodstock. It also doesn't hurt that commuting back to the city is super convenient from here.
It's been great so far, but anytime I mention where I live to people super familiar with Marietta they say things like "Oh it's not too bad of an area", "I would have chosen a different school district" (we don't have kids, yet), "Why didn't you look for something further into East Cobb? Was there nothing affordable there?" or some other catty remark that makes me question my life choices. Are people just a$$holes or is the "East Cobb snob" namesake really a thing? More importantly, do I need to be worried about depreciating property values based on where I'm at?
Sounds like some snobby people you’re talking to. I live around the same area and haven’t had anyone say something like that. But then again, I’m in my early 20s so a lot of people in that range live around here since this area is near KSU.
It might only be due to the fact that this area is mainly known as Town Center and Town Center Mall itself was talking bankruptcy only a few months ago. I still wouldn’t call this a “bad area” though. Barrett Parkway is packed every time I get on it and there’s always stuff going on around here.
I wouldn’t worry about what people have to say about where you’re at. As long as you’re happy with your investment, that’s all the matters in my opinion. I don’t think you’ll lose any value as it is now in this area.

I live near Sprayberry high school. The best high schools in East Cobb are Walton and Lassiter. The resale value on your home won’t be as large of a percentage as as home in Walton or Lassiter, but it still will appreciate.
hat area is perfectly fine. East Cobb Snob is a real thing, and some people up in the burbs are so ignorant and sheltered they don't know what they're talking about.
Yes, East Cobb has some better amenities but you're going to be in a whitewashed, overpriced area to get marginal gains.
Your house is near some great stuff and you should be more than fine and happy there. Congrats!
Agreed. I live in the Wheeler school district right near the east lake shopping center and heard an east Cobb snob refer to it as a bad part of town.? It’s literally three minutes from east Cobb park lol. I also don’t have kids but kept school districts in mind for resale value. Since 2019, my townhouse has appreciated about 20%, and that’s even living in one of the less desired east Cobb school districts.
I think you’re totally fine. I’d much rather have a little diversity in my area than live in true east Cobb. I know several families who live right near there and really like the area.
Antidotally, when the Lidl was getting built in east Cobb, I saw people on the east Cobb snobs fb page complaining that a discount grocery store would bring “undesirables” to their precious east Cobb. It’s always packed though and in a nice shopping center with half priced books, cfa, and mellow mushroom.
That is a very nice area. I worked at the Home Depot on Roswell Road for several years and the customers were absolutely atrocious. Literally, 60 year old women calling me a bitch to my face at least once a week. When I moved to the store in Cartersville, the customers were SO much nicer I couldn’t believe it.
Depends on your priorities I guess, but the schools are pretty different

How are they different? Is Sprayberry that bad in comparison? My priority is living somewhere I enjoy and not basing an entire life decision around a school rating between just good and better when I'm not even sure we'll have kids.
Well, I’m sure there’s more than one way to compare them but most parents will probably just defer to standardized test scores. And yeah I mean, I’m with you it’s not the only thing that matters, but you can imagine the other perspective. For some people, and I’ll call myself out here, it’s the most important thing. For others it’s just part of a broader need to feel better than everyone, and that’s probably where a lot of the pettiness comes from.Yeah, it's a little bit worse.
Every school on that half of Cobb is top 25% in the State. It's just that three other schools in the area (Lassiter, Pope, Walton) are top 10 in the state. So it's an "oh no" situation in which you got an excellent school instead of literally the best one in the state.
Be very careful about rankings, as they don’t indicate how good the school is more the demographics… Walton has mostly white collar catchment area so will get great results, but say spray berry is far more diverse and gets a bit less good results, but you could argue the teaching is better. If you normalize the socio-economics there is no difference really
We have lived in the area for 15+ years. Seriously have never had a problem and I personally love it. It's so close to lots of cool places and easy access to the interstate.
That last question left me laughing. I graduated from Sprayberry in the 2000's your property value has risen there by over 100k since then. Congrats on the new place and don't sweat the haters
I dont think its a bad area. I there are worse places in Marietta to live in. Some people will say east cobb is where you need to be for school and being safe developed area. But the east cobb snob I kinda see every once in awhile. I lived in Midtown so you know you cant leave anything unlocked there. Ive accidentally left my car door open over night or garage door open and no incident luckily. That wouldn’t happen in midtown
used to live just west of the intersection of Piedmont & Canton. The only problem I really had was that because Piedmont is a main road there would be police cars, ambulances, and fire trucks with sirens on going past the house more than I'd have liked. The neighborhood I was in was safe -- no one stole mail or packages, my house and car were never broken into, I wasn't vandalized or anything. I think you're fine.
As far as schools go, there's nothing wrong with Sprayberry High School. Yeah, it's not one of Cobb's top three, but it doesn't suck.
And when I sold my house I sold it for $35,000 more than I bought it, so there's that too.
My experience is pretty similar to yours. Wife and I were living in l5p and decided we wanted to buy. I legitimately stressed for months about remaining in the city, but at the time it just wasn't financially possible to buy what we wanted where we were. We ended up buying in the Marietta city limits. It was something I SWORE I would never do, but all in all, I've really enjoyed being here.
I'm not a Cobb county native so I wasn't very well-versed in the politics of East Cobb/not East Cobb etc etc when we first got here but I've picked up on it in the five years since. We are at the point now that our starter home is feeling a bit cramped at times and we are considering kids in the future. Funnily enough, we've driven through your area and said "wow, this seems like a decent place to raise a family and is also in our current price range" ...this is of course comparatively speaking to other parts of East Cobb. I think it's all about perspective. For us, it seems great. For you, also great. I think people are just generally assholes. Ignore them. lol

People are assholes AND the east cobb snob thing is real
Sprayberry is the worst of the East Cobb schools, but it's still a great area and great school. Not as wealthy as the Pope, Lassiter, and Walton districts. Still a safe area and more affordable than further into East Cobb.
Fuck Lassiter though.
Why is it the worst? Are there gangs, terrible test scores, high teen pregnancies or drop out rates? Or is it still a good, safe, school being compared to very high ranking neighboring districts?
ot so much. It's that the tax base of Lassiter and them make all the other schools in the area look so much better. I love where you do - probably neighbors, and this place is AWESOME.
It covers a lot of apartments (and closer to the highways) so it attracts a lower income/socioeconomic demographic. For reference, I also live in the Sprayberry district, but I went to Pope and have lived in Marietta for over twenty years. Test scores are definitely lower than Pope, Lassiter, and Walton, but Sprayberry is still a good school. Think of the other three as overachieving…primarily white, and mostly high middle to upper class residents. Sprayberry is mostly straight up middle class.
This isn't a bad area, in fact given the schools it's actually one of the better bargains available. And if it makez you happy on a personal level....who cares.
That said, some areas of the Canton Rd corridor are a little rundown, industrial, etc there is no denying that. And while spray berry is a good school, it's not up to the pope/Lassiter/Walton level.
So I get why people say that, at the same time if you are happy then who cares.
We were pretty close to the Canton/Piedmont intersection for 3yrs before moving closer to Kennesaw, didn't have any issues but I don't think I would've described the area as a whole as "nice". Lots of smaller/older houses with pockets of new construction, older strip malls and businesses but nothing abandoned or anything. More than anything it sounds like east Cobb folks making comparisons, there are most definitely worse parts of Marietta and if anything I think the area you're in will see improvements in the years to come.
That area is really good compared to other areas in Cobb. As long as you are in East Cobb. You are good to go. Also there are some assholes here. I used to live by Canton Road area and loved every minute of it.


If you don’t have kids don’t worry about it. When you do have kids and if you decide you want to move your house will still have appreciated and can sell it no prob, buying into a good school district (which you did) is always a good investment. It’s just not the “highest rated” in the area and that’s probably ok too.
I moved into the Sprayberry area last January and we really like it. It's not a bad area by any means and I have to imagine anyone saying that either 1. is a serious snob or 2. just very ignorant/misinformed.
Not at all. Sprayberry is a great school (even if they were our high school rivals!). That area has low crime as well.
The ‘East Cobb Snob’ mentality is a very real thing though.
I currently live in the sprayberry district and my husband and I would love to get a house around here. Houses are only getting more expensive here tho, so you won't have to worry about depreciation. Especially with the dang battery driving up prices now. We'll probably end up in like Acworth for cheaper which will be a drive for me to work in Smyrna. And yes, east Cobb is very expensive…
Lol. I just moved otp from midtown as well into East Cobb. I was excited to get a funky 70s house with a pool and no HOA. I had no idea about the East Cobb Snob thing. After moving though, it is definitely real. Example, as soon as I moved here, everyone was freaking out about the Tokyo Valentino. It is just an adult store, but people were losing their minds. Because of that, I do not give any credit to anything they are worried about. Welcome to the burbs!
I’m in the same area and I am hearing lots of people who have your story, that is city dwellers who have moved to this exact area because of family or other considerations. In the last two years. The truth is that many areas are defined by Hs districts due to the family oriented nature. Many people buy based on district zoning but the zones can be fudged when you actually send your kids to Hs. I don’t know how that works but see it often. You’re in a good area and the value is great here for the benefits. Feel free to Dm.
Everyone in East Cobb is an asshole. That is a nice area. My husband grew up there and went to Sprayberry, and I work just down Sandy Plains road
I have two kids and recently moved to greater Atlanta (staying with relatives until we buy). Through my own due diligence I quickly focused on East Cobb but only the areas with Lassiter, Walton, and Pope high schools. I don’t think there is really anything wrong with going more west but if you want the best you need to go more east. I’m hoping it slows down soon because I quickly got into $700-$800k range and it’s hard to find good inventory now.
I definitely understand on the price concerns and hoping it slows down! We did look further into East Cobb, but with what we were willing to pay we'd be in an older home that needed major upgrades and in the thick of suburbia. My stomach would drop at the thought of having to live in a home while remodeling and having to drive through miles and miles and miles of nothing but neighborhoods and an occasional youth sports complex. I think I just wasn't ready to pay a ton of money to live in an area that wasn't very walkable while being overwhelmed with home projects. I still want to leave my move-in ready home and be able to walk to grab coffee, browse stores, or stumble home from a bar.
I just bought a house a couple miles east of you in the Sprayberry district (I’m like right on the boarder of Lassiter). The schools are very good and pretty much the same. Walton/Lassiter get good ratings because they rebuilt or improved them. I believe Sprayberry High School was approved for $18M in renovations so it will also be nice in 3 years. Also, approved or close to approved on fixing up commercial space on Piedmont and Sandy Plains. I almost bought one in Pope district but the home inspector (my friend) pretty much told me the house was a POS and this was $700k. Just inspected the one I’m buying and it was like night and day. I did notice this on several houses built in the 90’s in that area.
Yeah apparently the head of our small neighborhood HOA helped lead the "Rebuild Sprayberry" effort with SPLOST and it was approved so the school will be even better. Plus the other "top" East Cobb schools can't keep themselves out of the news lately for racist Highschoolers. I still love it here so far, but now I'm worried about how much our property taxes and mortgage payment will increase 🤷‍♀️
I've lived in the Sprayberry area for nearly 20 years. The key is steadily increasing property values, neighborhoods on the way up, and growing highly-rated Sprayberry High School (they are adding a three-story building as we speak.) I also love the diversity in this area, and the lack of HOAs. Personally, I think one could do much worse.

Is Franklin Road really that bad?
I recently paid the deposit on a place on Franklin Road without realizing the area had such a bad reputation; I've seen where the city is dumping tons of money into cleaning the place up, but I will be living there with my girlfriend and am a little concerned about safety. I'm not certain if I would be able to get my deposit back if I were to back out at this point, and my current lease is up at the end of the month so finding another place that's affordable would be difficult. Does anyone know if the area has improved any over the last couple of years? I plan to invest in a gun and some sort of security system, but it would be a little while after moving in and my concerns are a little more immediate. Thanks in advance for any advice.

Get a good car immobilizer. Good luck.
I lived on Franklin Road for 3 years. I never had an issue. I'd even walk up the QT at all hours. There are some sketch people around and a few bad eggs, but mostly it's just low income people who are just trying to get by. This was also in 2005 so maybe it's changed in 10 years.
Tips:
-Don't keep anything in your car in sight.
-Be smart, don't go out wearing a fancy watch/super nice clothes and walk down the street.
-Try to get a 2nd floor apartment (no one can just hop in the window then).
-A gun is a good investment be smart.
Yeah I was referring to the one in Marietta. Sorry, I should have specified. The area didn't seem too bad during the day, but I've heard it becomes sketchy at night.
Granted it was years ago but I was a manager at a pizza place and there were a few places on Franklin we wouldn't deliver to after dark due to issues.
I dated a cop who patrolled that area on night shift. He let on that it's quite sketchy. Lots of thefts and domestic abuse cases. But he was zoned for that area with a couple of other officers, so perhaps that's good that police presence is there?
Worked on Franklin for years. It definitely has problems, but be smart about it. Hey -- at least there's Tasty China!
You should be fine. If you buy a gun, take a safety course. A friend of mine is a instructor at Wild West Trading Post, I recommend them highly. Use common sense - don't leave the box for that new flatscreen by the curb, don't leave stuff in plain view in your car. If you're still a little antsy, see if your landlord is willing to install security doors.
Yeah I intend to take a class or two and go shooting; having a gun won't do me any good if I don't know to use it properly. I appreciate the optimistic advice, I don't own a lot and tend to keep to myself so I don't think it will be as bad as some people have said.
ook over on Terrell Mill Road, Powers Ferry or even Roswell near Robinson/South Marietta Parkway. You'll be happier
I manage a few properties on the end of Franklin Rd. The area has improved greatly over the last couple years with most of the improvment coming after the city started tearing down the really bad appartments. Its not a super low crime area but it is defiantly safe as long as your not an idiot about things. Out of curiosity which part of Franklin is the unit your leasing?
Ok all my units are on the other end near the loop. Its my understanding that is the worse end but i do think it has improved over the last 2 years. If you dont mind me asking how much is the rent and what size?
I live off of terrell mill road and it's dark area but weve been here 8 months or so and had no issues. Police camp my apartments pretty often though.
With all thay said i wouldnt live here. I was working 70 hour weeks when we picked it out so i had to let the gf shop and she went for bottom dollar price basically

Back out! You don't want to take the chance of being robbed, beaten, shot, etc. Everyone I've personally known who lived in that area was assaulted or worse. My friend's mom answered a knock on the door from a kid and he put a gun in her face.
OP WILL LITERALLY DIE IF S/HE MOVES THERE
area is super bleak.

Is Franklin GTWY that bad?
don’t wanna scare you, but check everywhere for roaches. From the moment I moved in, they would show up here and there…and then I couldn’t go a day without seeing them skittering all over the place. I hadn’t even brought any food into my place yet! I contacted management and they eventually got someone to take care of it, but since they’re German roaches and they’re really hard to get rid of, management will need to bring pest control out to every surrounding unit in your building or else they’ll just come back to your place.
Aside from the roaches, I lived alone as a 20 something young woman there, and never felt in danger…but I also rarely went outside. I was kept awake at all hours of the night with loud music, yelling, and my downstairs neighbor who was getting it on with the loudest women in the world every other night. Sooooo yeah…I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but be prepared for the typical shitty apartment problems. That being said, it’s been a couple years since I’ve lived there, so I truly hope it’s gotten better and your stay there isn’t awful. Above all else, be strict with management about the roaches and stress that they’re a health hazard so they’re more pressured to send out someone to take care of the problem
I guess it depends on where you come from. Someone used to city living probably won't find it bad. Someone who comes from suburban areas might not be too happy about it.
Yeah, it’s looks nicer, now that they updated it. But, that area isn’t the best. I’m sure you’ll be fine, but it definitely isn’t east Cobb. lol.
It ain't great brother
 feel like it got a stigma in the 80\90s that the move to Canton\Cartersville to get away from Atlanta types still perpetuate (the white flight folks for the ones in the back).
The hourly rate motels are always gonna have some sketch elements.
Be street smart and you should be okay. The roaches comment is important for any apartment, but just remember, it doesn't matter how much you clean in an apartment, if your neighbor is nasty and has roaches, they're gonna Columbus their way to you.
Yes it’s that bad imo
I would say the biggest downside to Franklin is a lack of things to do (which has nothing to do with the people who live there), otherwise I really think you'll be fine
 work off Franklin and Delk and personally I wouldn’t want to live there. I’ve lived in Woodstock, Acworth, Sandy Springs. I avoid living in Marietta. The Racetrac is not bad that’s my go-to. Avoid going to the chevron by the Cracker Barrel. And don’t sit in your car and eat in the McDonald’s parking lot by the motel. Coming from personal experience
It’s not the worst thing ever. You’ll be fine, it’s just a lot of less fortunate minorities so that spooks a lot of people. It used to be a lot worse I’ll just say that.

I work on Franklin Gateway and I wouldn’t live here. I live about 15 minutes away in East Cobb. I think you’ll be fine for a year, but I would move out next year to a more fun area.
We can dance around it, but it's not a nice area. And it's not East Cobb
I lived there for a year and then off of Delk for the next three until my wife and I could afford to buy a home in East Cobb.
Having grown up in East Cobb, Franklin was a bit of a culture shock, but did I ever truly feel unsafe, no. Did I walk down the street late at night by myself, also no.
There is a lot of foot traffic in the area, so pearl clutchers feel as if they are about to be jumped at any moment, which is just bottled up racism.
lived In Veritas at East Cobb apartments since 2021. There is somewhat Gang/ Drug/ Street Crimes going on for sure. Marietta Police regularly sends cruisers throughout the apartment complexes due to the High crime
That area has been a hellhole for over 30 years. They paint it, tear down some rundown apartments, then rename it and hope it will go away.... but there it fuckin is.
Avoid it like the plague.
I was personal friends with many Marietta cops, back in the 80's and 90's. Many of them served as courtesy officers in the apartments on Delk and Franklin Rds and they HATED it. Some of them were bad enough that MPD wouldn't allow officers to enter them alone. They had to be a 2-man unit or wait for backup.
Check the news today and you'll still find someone getting robbed or shot there at least monthly.
It's not Chicago, but it's not good

It’s nowhere near as dangerous as say living in Atlanta. But compared to Cobb county areas it isn’t the best, but definitely not the worst
t’s not the best but it’s not the worst and it’s certainly not what it was 15-20 years ago, despite the lingering reputation. You’re not going to want to live there forever but I wouldn’t rush to break the lease.
I lived off of that road for a few years. I also had an “updated” apartment, there are a lot of them around there.
I have lived in cities all my adult life, including Baltimore in my 20’s. I guess that kind of impacts my perspective, but I didn’t find it dangerous. I didn’t feel unsafe. I moved closer to Smyrna in January and I also feel safe here.
The thing is, though- the apartments are cheaply redone. The bug issue is huge here and my cracks or drafts will cause a ton to be inside. The overgrowth of trees adds to it in older complexes.
It’s a convenient area with working class families. And like anywhere else, there is crime. Just have to decide what you want to deal with

I grew up in marietta. Haven't been back in 15 years.
When I grew up there it was really kind of ghetto and run down but now I hear it's very up and coming. Is this true?here’s the “can’t afford it” parts and the “can’t drive through there” parts
I began living in Marietta around the time you left and it was very ghetto at that time but has slowly completely changed as rent has gone up from increased traffic and new homes being built. Still kind of ghetto over by south Cobb drive/windy hill area but much better than before
That is still the worst hood in all of marietta. Its worse than 15 years ago. I'm not sure how that complex is allowed to exist.
The rest of marietta has improved greatly.
Marietta had some “ghetto” parts but as a whole it was never ghetto. It’s actually quite nice.


Because The Battery is only 5 miles away, it’s become more popular, thus traffic has gotten worse. It used to take me 5 mins to go 2 exits S to Windy Hill but now can take 15 - 20 depending on traffic. Most of the bldgs on Cobb Pkwy, esp fast food joints have gotten a facelift . The Big Chicken’s was $2M a few yrs back. Rents and houses have def gone up. A $1000-$1200 apt is now about $1500-$1600. It’s still a fairly decent place to live. Moved here 25 yrs ago and when I sold my house last year, I only moved a mile away. Property crime in E Cobb has gotten worse. Car break ins at the really nice subdivisions has increased with multiple car break ins reported frequently and attempted home break ins caught on Ring cameras. I’m leaving GA altogether next year but I still like it he

